CompTIA Net+/Chapter 05 - Cabling Solutions and Issues/2 Troubleshooting Common Cable Connectivity Issues.md, before:

# Throughput, Speed, and Distance
- There must be enough bandwidth to serve all users.
- Throughput is the rate of data delivery over a communication channel, measured in bpps.
- Bandwidth ≠ throughput

# Cabling Considerations
- Budgets don't always allow for the best cabling.
- If faulty wiring is the suspect, move the device or bring a known working device to test.
- A multifunction cable can help with troubleshooting most wiring issues.
- Bent pins can cause lack of contact.

# Cabling Issues
- An incorrect cable type can keep the host from being able to communicate on the network.
- A lower Cat rating than what is required.
- Using UTP where STP is required.

# Signal Degradation
- Weakening of a signal through fiber is called chromatic dispersion.
- Exceeding maximum distances without using repeaters.
- Measurement of attenuation is done in decibels, known as dB loss.

# Interference
- EMI and Crosstalk
- EMI can reduce or corrupt signal strengths.

# Improper Termination
- Can result in poor electrical contact between the cable and the connector.
- More suseptible to EMI and RFI.
- Can cause crosstalk.
- Causes signal loss, interference, reflections, physical damage, and increased error rates.

# Incorrect Pinout
- Try to keep cable splitting to a minimum.

# Bad Ports
- If a port is blocked, data will not be allowed through.
- Blackhole: When a router does not send back an expected mes

Commit message:

updated: Mon 25-02-10 changes: 4
Affected files:
.obsidian/workspace.json
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 05 - Cabling Solutions and Issues/2 Troubleshooting Common Cable Connectivity Issues.md
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 05 - Cabling Solutions and Issues/3 Hardware Issues.md
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 05 - Cabling Solutions and Issues/Glossary/drops.md

CompTIA Net+/Chapter 05 - Cabling Solutions and Issues/2 Troubleshooting Common Cable Connectivity Issues.md, after:

# Throughput, Speed, and Distance
- There must be enough bandwidth to serve all users.
- Throughput is the rate of data delivery over a communication channel, measured in bpps.
- Bandwidth ≠ throughput

# Cabling Considerations
- Budgets don't always allow for the best cabling.
- If faulty wiring is the suspect, move the device or bring a known working device to test.
- A multifunction cable can help with troubleshooting most wiring issues.
- Bent pins can cause lack of contact.

# Cabling Issues
- An incorrect cable type can keep the host from being able to communicate on the network.
- A lower Cat rating than what is required.
- Using UTP where STP is required.

# Signal Degradation
- Weakening of a signal through fiber is called chromatic dispersion.
- Exceeding maximum distances without using repeaters.
- Measurement of attenuation is done in decibels, known as dB loss.

# Interference
- EMI and Crosstalk
- EMI can reduce or corrupt signal strengths.

# Improper Termination
- Can result in poor electrical contact between the cable and the connector.
- More suseptible to EMI and RFI.
- Can cause crosstalk.
- Causes signal loss, interference, reflections, physical damage, and increased error rates.

# Incorrect Pinout
- Try to keep cable splitting to a minimum.

# Bad Ports
- If a port is blocked, data will not be allowed through.
- Blackhole: When a router does not send back an expected message that the data has been received. Usually caused by packets that are too large.

# Open/Short
- Open fault: Cables are not making a full circuit.
- Short fault: Data attempts to travel on wires other than those for which it was intended.

# LED Status Indicators
- You can determine problems on a switch with LEDs.

# Duplexing Issues
- Speed and duplex mismatches can slow data rates and prevent high bandwidth applications from being usable.

# TX/RX Reversed
- A crossover cable being used where a straight through cable should be used will cause problems.

# Dirty Optical Cables
- Dirt or debris can impede light travel.
- Blow away dust, use isopropyl alcohol when necessary.

# Interface Issues
- Commonly runts, giants, or [[drops]].
- CRC values are assigned to data. If it doesn't match, errors occur.
- Interface issues leading to a port status of error disabled, administratively down, or suspended can result from various factors such as faulty cabling, connector issues, or misconfigurations in network devices.
