CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/1 Physical Installation Factors.md, before:

# Components of Wiring Distribution
- The wiring closet is the place in the network where you connect the cables and networking devices. 
- These rooms contain key network devices, and they also contain the network media.

## Network Cross-Connects
- The cable that runs throughout a network can be divided into two distinct sections:
	- [[Horizontal cabling]]
	- [[Vertical (backbone) cabling]]
- There are three types of cable distribution:
	- [[Vertical (Main) cross-connect]]
	- [[Horizontal cross-connect]]
	- [[Intermediate cross-connect]]
- The term "cross-connect" refers to the point where the cables running throughout the network meet and are connected.

## 66 and 110 Blocks (T568A, T568B)
- Type 66 is an older punchdown block used to connect wiring for telephone systems and other low-speed network systems.
	- Has 50 rows of IDC contacts to accommodate 25-pair TP cable.
	- Not suitable for anything above 10BASET due to crosstalk.
- Type 110 is used to connect network cable to patch panels.
	- Can also be used at the other end of the network cable at the RJ-45 wall jack.
	- Supports higher frequencies and less crosstalk.
	- Termination will be a T568A or T568B, depending on the wiring standard used.
- Krone and Bix blocks also exist.
	- These two require different blades in the punchdown tools to work with them.
	- Bix is more popular in older implementations
	- Krone is more popular internationally.

## MDF and IDF Wiring Closets
- Two types of wiring closets are the main distribution frame (MDF) and intermediate distribution frame (IDF).
- The main wiring closet typically holds the majority of the network gear and where outside lines run into the network (MDF)
	- One key component is the primary patch panel.
	- The network connector jacks attached to this patch panel lead out to the building for network connections.
- Some networks use multiple wiring closets. A secondary closet (IDF) connects to the MDF using a backbone cable.

## Rack Size
- Standard rack sizes, such as 19-inch or 23-inch widths, are commonly used in the industry and provide compatibility with a wide range of networking equipment from various vendors.
- A popular way to classify a rack is by its height and thus racks are labeled with specifications such as "42u" or "7ft" "U" stands for "u-spaces", or rack units, which are equal to 1.75 inches.

## Port-side Exhaust/Intake
- The direction in which airflow is directed by network equipment, such as switches or servers, through their ventilation ports should be port-side exhaust/intake for maintaining optimal operating temperatures and preventing equipment overheating.
- In this configuration, airflow is directed out toward the network ports and cool air is pulled in from the network ports.

## Lockable Environment
- All network equipment should be physically secure.

# Using Uninterruptible Power Supplies
- UPS: A box that holds a battery and a built-in charging circuit. 
- Required to provide enough power to give the admin time to properly shut servers down.
- Why use one?
	- Data availability
	- Protection from data loss
	- Protection form hardware damage.

## Power Loads, Threats, and Voltage
- A UPS also protects a server from inconsistent power, such as:
	- Blackouts
	- Spikes (<1 second intense increase in voltage)
	- Surges (>1, less intense increase in voltage)
	- Sags (<1 second drop in voltage)
	- Brownouts (>2 minute drop in voltage)

## Beyond the UPS
- Power generators should be used when there is a longer term outage.
- R

Commit message:

updated: Tue 25-02-11 changes: 3
Affected files:
.obsidian/workspace.json
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/1 Physical Installation Factors.md
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/2 Organizational Processes and Procedures.md

CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/1 Physical Installation Factors.md, after:

# Components of Wiring Distribution
- The wiring closet is the place in the network where you connect the cables and networking devices. 
- These rooms contain key network devices, and they also contain the network media.

## Network Cross-Connects
- The cable that runs throughout a network can be divided into two distinct sections:
	- [[Horizontal cabling]]
	- [[Vertical (backbone) cabling]]
- There are three types of cable distribution:
	- [[Vertical (Main) cross-connect]]
	- [[Horizontal cross-connect]]
	- [[Intermediate cross-connect]]
- The term "cross-connect" refers to the point where the cables running throughout the network meet and are connected.

## 66 and 110 Blocks (T568A, T568B)
- Type 66 is an older punchdown block used to connect wiring for telephone systems and other low-speed network systems.
	- Has 50 rows of IDC contacts to accommodate 25-pair TP cable.
	- Not suitable for anything above 10BASET due to crosstalk.
- Type 110 is used to connect network cable to patch panels.
	- Can also be used at the other end of the network cable at the RJ-45 wall jack.
	- Supports higher frequencies and less crosstalk.
	- Termination will be a T568A or T568B, depending on the wiring standard used.
- Krone and Bix blocks also exist.
	- These two require different blades in the punchdown tools to work with them.
	- Bix is more popular in older implementations
	- Krone is more popular internationally.

## MDF and IDF Wiring Closets
- Two types of wiring closets are the main distribution frame (MDF) and intermediate distribution frame (IDF).
- The main wiring closet typically holds the majority of the network gear and where outside lines run into the network (MDF)
	- One key component is the primary patch panel.
	- The network connector jacks attached to this patch panel lead out to the building for network connections.
- Some networks use multiple wiring closets. A secondary closet (IDF) connects to the MDF using a backbone cable.

## Rack Size
- Standard rack sizes, such as 19-inch or 23-inch widths, are commonly used in the industry and provide compatibility with a wide range of networking equipment from various vendors.
- A popular way to classify a rack is by its height and thus racks are labeled with specifications such as "42u" or "7ft" "U" stands for "u-spaces", or rack units, which are equal to 1.75 inches.

## Port-side Exhaust/Intake
- The direction in which airflow is directed by network equipment, such as switches or servers, through their ventilation ports should be port-side exhaust/intake for maintaining optimal operating temperatures and preventing equipment overheating.
- In this configuration, airflow is directed out toward the network ports and cool air is pulled in from the network ports.

## Lockable Environment
- All network equipment should be physically secure.

# Using Uninterruptible Power Supplies
- UPS: A box that holds a battery and a built-in charging circuit. 
- Required to provide enough power to give the admin time to properly shut servers down.
- Why use one?
	- Data availability
	- Protection from data loss
	- Protection form hardware damage.

## Power Loads, Threats, and Voltage
- A UPS also protects a server from inconsistent power, such as:
	- Blackouts
	- Spikes (<1 second intense increase in voltage)
	- Surges (>1, less intense increase in voltage)
	- Sags (<1 second drop in voltage)
	- Brownouts (>2 minute drop in voltage)

## Beyond the UPS
- Power generators should be used when there is a longer term outage.
- Redundant circuits and dual power supplies should also be used for key equipment.
- Power distribution unit (PDU): Any device fitted with multiple outputs that is specifically designed to distribute electric power.
- PDUs can be basic or intelligent.

# Environmental Factors
- Includes temperature, humidity, electrical, and water/flood risks.
- Computer rooms should have fire and moisture detectors.
- Humidity should be between 45 and 55%
- Temperature should stay between 20-25c (78-77F)
