CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/3 Monitoring Network Performance.md, before:

# Common Performance Metrics
- Temperature
- Utilization
- Bandwidth / throughput
- Storage
- Network device CPU
- Network device memory
- Wireless channel utilization
- Latency
- Jitter
- Fault detection
- Perfmon
- Security monitoring
- Link state status
- Interface monitoring
- Packet capture
- Maintenance / configuration
- Power monitoring
- Wireless monitoring

# Network Performance, Load, and Stress Testing

## Performance Tests
- The goal is to take ongoing performance tests and evaluate and compare them, looking for potential bottlenecks.

## Load Tests and Send/Receive Traffic
- Load tests involve artificially placing the network under a larger workload.
- Sometimes used to see if bugs exist in the network that are not currently visible but can cause problems as the network grows.

## Stress Tests
- Shows exactly what the network can handle.
- Enables you to test your backup and recovery procedures.
- Allows you to observe network failure in a controlled environment.

## Performance Metrics
- Error rate
- Utilization
- Packet drops
- Bandwidth / Throughput

# Network Device Logs
- Event log

Commit message:

updated: Thu 25-02-13 changes: 1
Affected files:
CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/3 Monitoring Network Performance.md

CompTIA Net+/Chapter 08 - Network Operations/3 Monitoring Network Performance.md, after:

# Common Performance Metrics
- Temperature
- Utilization
- Bandwidth / throughput
- Storage
- Network device CPU
- Network device memory
- Wireless channel utilization
- Latency
- Jitter
- Fault detection
- Perfmon
- Security monitoring
- Link state status
- Interface monitoring
- Packet capture
- Maintenance / configuration
- Power monitoring
- Wireless monitoring

# Network Performance, Load, and Stress Testing

## Performance Tests
- The goal is to take ongoing performance tests and evaluate and compare them, looking for potential bottlenecks.

## Load Tests and Send/Receive Traffic
- Load tests involve artificially placing the network under a larger workload.
- Sometimes used to see if bugs exist in the network that are not currently visible but can cause problems as the network grows.

## Stress Tests
- Shows exactly what the network can handle.
- Enables you to test your backup and recovery procedures.
- Allows you to observe network failure in a controlled environment.

## Performance Metrics
- Error rate
- Utilization
- Packet drops
- Bandwidth / Throughput

# Network Device Logs
- Event logs refer generically to all log files used to track events on a system.

## Security Logs
- Contains events related to security incidents.
- Each event in a security log contains:
	- Date
	- Time
	- User
	- Computer
	- Event ID

## Application Log
- Contains information logged by applications that run on a particular system rather than the OS itself.

## System Logs
- Records information about components or drivers in the system.
- Hardware, services, etc.

## History Logs
- Often associated with the tracking of Internet surfing habits.
- Maintains a record of all sites a user visits.
- Another form of history logging is a com
