CompTIA Net+/Practice Exams/Blanks & Keys/Practice Exam - 02.md, before:

1. Which of the following definitions best describes the function of a firewall?
	1. 1. A device that connects two networks forwarding traffic between them as needed
	2. A device located between two networks that enables administrators to restrict incoming and outgoing traffic
	3. A device that caches Internet data for subsequent use by internal network clients
	4. A device that enables Internet network clients with private IP addresses to access the Internet

2. Review the following figure. Each of the switches has three ports connected to computers and one port for switch-to-switch connections. All of the computer ports and links are configured for half-duplex communication. The switch-to-switch links are configured for full-duplex communication. Which of the following statements about the switched network is true?![[Pasted image 20250220115650.png]]
	1. There is one collision domain for this network.
	2. There are three collision domains, one for each switch-to-switch connection.
	3. There are nine collision domains, one for each half-duplex connection.
	4. There are twelve collision domains, one for each switch connection.

3. Which of the following network devices can provide authentication services for multiple remote access servers using the device's own account database?
	1. NAS
	2. IDS
	3. NGFW
	4. RADIUS

4. You are designing the network for your company's new branch office, and you need a device on which administrators can create virtual local area networks (VLANs) and that will forward traffic between them. Which of the following devices can do this?
	1. Virtual router
	2. Multilayer switch
	3. Broadband router
	4. Load balancer

5. You are setting up a new network for which you have been given the IPv4 network address 10.61.0.0/19. You want to calculate the number of hosts you can create on each subnet. How many bits are allocated to the host identifier in an IPv4 address on this network?
	1. 5
	2. 8
	3. 13
	4. 21

6. The protocols that are responsible for the delivery of data packets to their final destinations on an internetwork operate at which layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model?
	1. Application
	2. Session
	3. Transport
	4. Network
	5. Data link

7. Originally, storage area networks (SANs) were dedicated solely to storage-based traffic. A local area network (LAN) was also required for other types of traffic. Today, however, it is possible for SAN and LAN traffic to coexist on a single network medium. Which of the following SAN protocols are capable of sharing a network medium with standard LAN traffic? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Fibre Channel
	2. InfiniBand
	3. iSCSI
	4. FCoE

8. Which of the following Application layer protocols do not include a program that enables a user to log on to a remote network device and execute commands using a character-based interface? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Telnet
	2. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
	3. File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
	4. Domain Name System (DNS)

9. Which of the following statements about switches are true? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Switches provide internal crossover circuits and use uplink ports to form a hierarchical star/hub and spoke topology.
	2. Switches are Data link layer devices that connect network devices in a star/hub and spoke topology.
	3. Switches amplify and repeat signals received through one port out all other ports regardless of the destination.
	4. Switches use IP addresses to identify the devices connected to specific ports.

10. You are planning an automated operating system deployment for 100 new Windows workstations your company has received. You intend to configure the workstations to boot using Preboot Execution Environment (PXE), during which time the system will obtain an IP address from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server and then download a boot image file from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. Which of the following well-known ports must you open on the firewall separating the workstations from the servers? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. 64
	2. 65
	3. 66
	4. 67
	5. 68
	6. 69

11. Your department is experiencing frequent delays as users wait for images to render using their outdated graphics software package. As a result, you submitted a change request for a new software product at the monthly meeting of the company's change management team. Now that the change request has been approved, it is time to implement the change. Which of the following administrative tasks will most likely be the change management team's responsibility during the implementation process? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Notifying users
	2. Documenting all modifications made
	3. Authorizing downtime
	4. Designating a maintenance window

12. You are installing a new server that is equipped with two power supplies. The server's firmware enables you to set the mode in which the power supplies will be used. In which of the following modes must the dual power supplies be running in order for the system to be fault tolerant?
	1. Individual mode
	2. Combined mode
	3. Redundant mode
	4. Hot backup mode

13. The Domain Name System (DNS) defines a hierarchical name space, in which locations are reflected in fully qualified domain names (FQDNs). Which of the words in the FQDN [`www.paris.mydomain.org`](http://www.paris.mydomain.org/) represents the bottommost layer in the DNS namespace's domain hierarchy?
	1. `www`
	2. `paris`
	3. `mydomain`
	4. `org`

14. The term _datagram_ is typically used by protocols offering connectionless delivery service. Which of the following protocols use the term _datagram_ to describe the data transfer unit it creates? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. TCP
	2. IP
	3. UDP
	4. Ethernet

15. Which element of the CIA triad prevents unauthorized viewing of protected data?
	1. Confidentiality
	2. Integrity
	3. Availability
	4. None of the above

16. You have just received notification of a new software release for an application you are running on your servers. The release is intended to address a newly discovered security vulnerability. Which of the following is the correct term for a software release containing a fix designed to address one specific issue?
	1. An upgrade
	2. A patch
	3. A service pack
	4. An update

17. Twisted-pair cables consist of multiple pairs of wires within a sheath, with each pair of wires twisted together separately. Which of the following statements best explain the reason for the twists in twisted-pair cabling? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. The twists help to prevent crosstalk in adjacent wire pairs.
	2. The twists make it easier for installers to attach connectors to the cable ends.
	3. The twists extend the cable's bend radius allowance, making it easier to install.
	4. The twists limit the effects of electromagnetic interference (EMI) on the signals carried over the cable.
	5. The twists help to prevent data collisions from occurring.

18. The figure shown here lists the processes currently running on a Linux workstation. Which of the following performance monitoring tools, provided in Linux and Unix operating systems, enables you to display information about processes that are currently running on a system?![[Pasted image 20250220120818.png]]
	1. `netstat`
	2. `dig`
	3. `perfmon`
	4. `top`

19. You are contracting with a provider to obtain email services for the clients on your network, using their existing email servers in the public cloud. You do not need anything from the provider other than email. Which of the following service models will you be using?
	1. PaaS
	2. SaaS
	3. IaaS
	4. All of the above

20. Security information and event management (SIEM) is a combination tool that uses information gathered from logs and network devices to provide a real-time analysis of the network's security condition. Which of the following SIEM processes performs searches for specific criteria, during specific time frames, in logs located on different computers?
	1. Data aggregation
	2. Correlation
	3. Retention
	4. Forensic analysis

21. When you start a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) client, it transmits DHCPDISCOVER messages to locate and initiate contact with DHCP servers. Which of the following types of transmissions does the client use for this purpose?
	1. Broadcast
	2. Unicast
	3. Multicast
	4. Anycast

22. Which of the following technologies enables virtual private network (VPN) users to establish a connection using only a web browser?
	1. VPN concentrator
	2. DMVPN
	3. SIP trunk
	4. MPLS
	5. Clientless VPN

23. You are installing a wireless network in a site that has many 2.4 GHz wireless telephones. Which of the following wireless networking technologies can you use that will never experience interference from the telephones? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. IEEE 802.11b
	2. IEEE 802.11g
	3. IEEE 802.11ac
	4. IEEE 802.11a
	5. IEEE 802.11n

24. Which of the following is another term for a switch?
	1. Multicast hub
	2. Multiport repeater
	3. Multiport bridge
	4. Multihomed router

25. You are working at a client site with a managed router that includes a console port for administrative access, which you can use to connect a laptop and run a terminal program to access the device's interface. Which of the following is the best term for this type of access to the device?
	1. Client-to-site
	2. In-band
	3. BYOD
	4. Out-of-band

26. Which of the following describes the primary difference between single sign-on (SSO) and same sign-on?
	1. Single sign-on (SSO) credentials consist of one username and one password, whereas same sign-on credentials consist of one username and multiple passwords.
	2. Single sign-on (SSO) requires the user to supply credentials only once, whereas with same sign-on, the user must supply the credentials repeatedly.
	3. Single sign-on (SSO) requires multifactor authentication, such as a password and a smartcard, whereas same sign-on requires only a password for authentication.
	4. Single sign-on (SSO) enables users to access different resources with one set of credentials, whereas same sign-on requires users to have multiple credential sets.

27. You have a laptop that requires you to hold your finger on a scanner pad before you can use it. A device equipped with a fingerprint scanner that is part of a multifactor authentication mechanism is using which of the following types of technology?
	1. Tamper detection
	2. Biometrics
	3. Hand geometry
	4. Pattern recognition

28. You have been asked to locate the computers on a network that the previous consultant has configured with incorrect IPv6 addresses. Which of the following are not correctly formatted IPv6 addresses? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. e00::c955:c944:acdd:3fcb
	2. fe00::b491:cf79:p493:23ff
	3. 2001:0:44ef68:23eb:99fe:72bec6:ea5f
	4. 2001:0:49e6:39ff:8cf5:6812:ef56

29. During a physical security evaluation by an outside contractor, you are asked whether your company uses a fail open or fail closed policy for the datacenter. You do not know what the contractor means. Which of the following physical security mechanisms can either fail close or fail open?
	1. Door locks
	2. Motion detectors
	3. Honeypots
	4. Video cameras

30. A disgruntled senior associate in the IT department at your company was terminated today and had to be escorted from the building. The IT director has instructed you to disable all of the former employee's accounts, change all network device passwords to which the employee had access, and have the datacenter door locks rekeyed. Which of the following terms best describes the director's concern in asking you to do these things?
	1. Logic bombs
	2. Internal threats
	3. Rogue devices
	4. Social engineering
	5. External threats

31. Ralph is troubleshooting a Windows server, and while doing so he runs the following command: `ping 127.0.0.1`. The command completes successfully. What has Ralph proven by doing this?
	1. That the computer's network adapter is functioning properly
	2. That the computer's IP address is correct for the network
	3. That the computer's TCP/IP networking stack is loaded and functioning properly
	4. Nothing at all

32. Which of the following are not examples of multifactor authentication (MFA)? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. A system that requires a smartcard and a PIN for authentication
	2. A system that uses an external RADIUS server for authentication
	3. A system that requires two passwords for authentication
	4. A system that requires a password and a retinal scan for authentication

33. A user calls Ed at the help desk to report that he cannot access the Internet. He can access systems on the local network, however. Ed examines the routing table on the user's workstation and sees the following. Which of the following statements explains why the user cannot access the Internet? 



```
IPv4 Route Table
========================================================
Active Routes:
Network Destination       Netmask     Gateway     Interface    Metric
127.0.0.0               255.0.0.0     On-link     127.0.0.1       331
127.0.0.1         255.255.255.255     On-link     127.0.0.1       331
127.255.255.255   255.255.255.255     On-link     127.0.0.1       331
192.158.2.0         255.255.255.0     On-link    
```

Commit message:

updated: Thu 25-02-20 changes: 3
Affected files:
.obsidian/workspace.json
CompTIA Net+/Practice Exams/Blanks & Keys/Practice Exam - 02.md
Pasted image 20250220123150.png

CompTIA Net+/Practice Exams/Blanks & Keys/Practice Exam - 02.md, after:

1. Which of the following definitions best describes the function of a firewall?
	1. 1. A device that connects two networks forwarding traffic between them as needed
	2. A device located between two networks that enables administrators to restrict incoming and outgoing traffic
	3. A device that caches Internet data for subsequent use by internal network clients
	4. A device that enables Internet network clients with private IP addresses to access the Internet

2. Review the following figure. Each of the switches has three ports connected to computers and one port for switch-to-switch connections. All of the computer ports and links are configured for half-duplex communication. The switch-to-switch links are configured for full-duplex communication. Which of the following statements about the switched network is true?![[Pasted image 20250220115650.png]]
	1. There is one collision domain for this network.
	2. There are three collision domains, one for each switch-to-switch connection.
	3. There are nine collision domains, one for each half-duplex connection.
	4. There are twelve collision domains, one for each switch connection.

3. Which of the following network devices can provide authentication services for multiple remote access servers using the device's own account database?
	1. NAS
	2. IDS
	3. NGFW
	4. RADIUS

4. You are designing the network for your company's new branch office, and you need a device on which administrators can create virtual local area networks (VLANs) and that will forward traffic between them. Which of the following devices can do this?
	1. Virtual router
	2. Multilayer switch
	3. Broadband router
	4. Load balancer

5. You are setting up a new network for which you have been given the IPv4 network address 10.61.0.0/19. You want to calculate the number of hosts you can create on each subnet. How many bits are allocated to the host identifier in an IPv4 address on this network?
	1. 5
	2. 8
	3. 13
	4. 21

6. The protocols that are responsible for the delivery of data packets to their final destinations on an internetwork operate at which layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model?
	1. Application
	2. Session
	3. Transport
	4. Network
	5. Data link

7. Originally, storage area networks (SANs) were dedicated solely to storage-based traffic. A local area network (LAN) was also required for other types of traffic. Today, however, it is possible for SAN and LAN traffic to coexist on a single network medium. Which of the following SAN protocols are capable of sharing a network medium with standard LAN traffic? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Fibre Channel
	2. InfiniBand
	3. iSCSI
	4. FCoE

8. Which of the following Application layer protocols do not include a program that enables a user to log on to a remote network device and execute commands using a character-based interface? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Telnet
	2. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
	3. File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
	4. Domain Name System (DNS)

9. Which of the following statements about switches are true? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Switches provide internal crossover circuits and use uplink ports to form a hierarchical star/hub and spoke topology.
	2. Switches are Data link layer devices that connect network devices in a star/hub and spoke topology.
	3. Switches amplify and repeat signals received through one port out all other ports regardless of the destination.
	4. Switches use IP addresses to identify the devices connected to specific ports.

10. You are planning an automated operating system deployment for 100 new Windows workstations your company has received. You intend to configure the workstations to boot using Preboot Execution Environment (PXE), during which time the system will obtain an IP address from a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server and then download a boot image file from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. Which of the following well-known ports must you open on the firewall separating the workstations from the servers? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. 64
	2. 65
	3. 66
	4. 67
	5. 68
	6. 69

11. Your department is experiencing frequent delays as users wait for images to render using their outdated graphics software package. As a result, you submitted a change request for a new software product at the monthly meeting of the company's change management team. Now that the change request has been approved, it is time to implement the change. Which of the following administrative tasks will most likely be the change management team's responsibility during the implementation process? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Notifying users
	2. Documenting all modifications made
	3. Authorizing downtime
	4. Designating a maintenance window

12. You are installing a new server that is equipped with two power supplies. The server's firmware enables you to set the mode in which the power supplies will be used. In which of the following modes must the dual power supplies be running in order for the system to be fault tolerant?
	1. Individual mode
	2. Combined mode
	3. Redundant mode
	4. Hot backup mode

13. The Domain Name System (DNS) defines a hierarchical name space, in which locations are reflected in fully qualified domain names (FQDNs). Which of the words in the FQDN [`www.paris.mydomain.org`](http://www.paris.mydomain.org/) represents the bottommost layer in the DNS namespace's domain hierarchy?
	1. `www`
	2. `paris`
	3. `mydomain`
	4. `org`

14. The term _datagram_ is typically used by protocols offering connectionless delivery service. Which of the following protocols use the term _datagram_ to describe the data transfer unit it creates? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. TCP
	2. IP
	3. UDP
	4. Ethernet

15. Which element of the CIA triad prevents unauthorized viewing of protected data?
	1. Confidentiality
	2. Integrity
	3. Availability
	4. None of the above

16. You have just received notification of a new software release for an application you are running on your servers. The release is intended to address a newly discovered security vulnerability. Which of the following is the correct term for a software release containing a fix designed to address one specific issue?
	1. An upgrade
	2. A patch
	3. A service pack
	4. An update

17. Twisted-pair cables consist of multiple pairs of wires within a sheath, with each pair of wires twisted together separately. Which of the following statements best explain the reason for the twists in twisted-pair cabling? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. The twists help to prevent crosstalk in adjacent wire pairs.
	2. The twists make it easier for installers to attach connectors to the cable ends.
	3. The twists extend the cable's bend radius allowance, making it easier to install.
	4. The twists limit the effects of electromagnetic interference (EMI) on the signals carried over the cable.
	5. The twists help to prevent data collisions from occurring.

18. The figure shown here lists the processes currently running on a Linux workstation. Which of the following performance monitoring tools, provided in Linux and Unix operating systems, enables you to display information about processes that are currently running on a system?![[Pasted image 20250220120818.png]]
	1. `netstat`
	2. `dig`
	3. `perfmon`
	4. `top`

19. You are contracting with a provider to obtain email services for the clients on your network, using their existing email servers in the public cloud. You do not need anything from the provider other than email. Which of the following service models will you be using?
	1. PaaS
	2. SaaS
	3. IaaS
	4. All of the above

20. Security information and event management (SIEM) is a combination tool that uses information gathered from logs and network devices to provide a real-time analysis of the network's security condition. Which of the following SIEM processes performs searches for specific criteria, during specific time frames, in logs located on different computers?
	1. Data aggregation
	2. Correlation
	3. Retention
	4. Forensic analysis

21. When you start a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) client, it transmits DHCPDISCOVER messages to locate and initiate contact with DHCP servers. Which of the following types of transmissions does the client use for this purpose?
	1. Broadcast
	2. Unicast
	3. Multicast
	4. Anycast

22. Which of the following technologies enables virtual private network (VPN) users to establish a connection using only a web browser?
	1. VPN concentrator
	2. DMVPN
	3. SIP trunk
	4. MPLS
	5. Clientless VPN

23. You are installing a wireless network in a site that has many 2.4 GHz wireless telephones. Which of the following wireless networking technologies can you use that will never experience interference from the telephones? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. IEEE 802.11b
	2. IEEE 802.11g
	3. IEEE 802.11ac
	4. IEEE 802.11a
	5. IEEE 802.11n

24. Which of the following is another term for a switch?
	1. Multicast hub
	2. Multiport repeater
	3. Multiport bridge
	4. Multihomed router

25. You are working at a client site with a managed router that includes a console port for administrative access, which you can use to connect a laptop and run a terminal program to access the device's interface. Which of the following is the best term for this type of access to the device?
	1. Client-to-site
	2. In-band
	3. BYOD
	4. Out-of-band

26. Which of the following describes the primary difference between single sign-on (SSO) and same sign-on?
	1. Single sign-on (SSO) credentials consist of one username and one password, whereas same sign-on credentials consist of one username and multiple passwords.
	2. Single sign-on (SSO) requires the user to supply credentials only once, whereas with same sign-on, the user must supply the credentials repeatedly.
	3. Single sign-on (SSO) requires multifactor authentication, such as a password and a smartcard, whereas same sign-on requires only a password for authentication.
	4. Single sign-on (SSO) enables users to access different resources with one set of credentials, whereas same sign-on requires users to have multiple credential sets.

27. You have a laptop that requires you to hold your finger on a scanner pad before you can use it. A device equipped with a fingerprint scanner that is part of a multifactor authentication mechanism is using which of the following types of technology?
	1. Tamper detection
	2. Biometrics
	3. Hand geometry
	4. Pattern recognition

28. You have been asked to locate the computers on a network that the previous consultant has configured with incorrect IPv6 addresses. Which of the following are not correctly formatted IPv6 addresses? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. e00::c955:c944:acdd:3fcb
	2. fe00::b491:cf79:p493:23ff
	3. 2001:0:44ef68:23eb:99fe:72bec6:ea5f
	4. 2001:0:49e6:39ff:8cf5:6812:ef56

29. During a physical security evaluation by an outside contractor, you are asked whether your company uses a fail open or fail closed policy for the datacenter. You do not know what the contractor means. Which of the following physical security mechanisms can either fail close or fail open?
	1. Door locks
	2. Motion detectors
	3. Honeypots
	4. Video cameras

30. A disgruntled senior associate in the IT department at your company was terminated today and had to be escorted from the building. The IT director has instructed you to disable all of the former employee's accounts, change all network device passwords to which the employee had access, and have the datacenter door locks rekeyed. Which of the following terms best describes the director's concern in asking you to do these things?
	1. Logic bombs
	2. Internal threats
	3. Rogue devices
	4. Social engineering
	5. External threats

31. Ralph is troubleshooting a Windows server, and while doing so he runs the following command: `ping 127.0.0.1`. The command completes successfully. What has Ralph proven by doing this?
	1. That the computer's network adapter is functioning properly
	2. That the computer's IP address is correct for the network
	3. That the computer's TCP/IP networking stack is loaded and functioning properly
	4. Nothing at all

32. Which of the following are not examples of multifactor authentication (MFA)? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. A system that requires a smartcard and a PIN for authentication
	2. A system that uses an external RADIUS server for authentication
	3. A system that requires two passwords for authentication
	4. A system that requires a password and a retinal scan for authentication

33. A user calls Ed at the help desk to report that he cannot access the Internet. He can access systems on the local network, however. Ed examines the routing table on the user's workstation and sees the following. Which of the following statements explains why the user cannot access the Internet?![[Pasted image 20250220123150.png]]
	1. The routing table does not specify a loopback address.
	2. The routing table does not specify a DNS server address.
	3. The routing table does not specify a default gateway address.
	4. The routing table contains two different routes to the 224.0.0.0 network.

34. Which of the following statements about single-mode fiber-optic cable are true? (Choose all that apply.)
	1. Multimode cables use an LED light source, while single-mode cables use a laser.
	2. Multimode cables can span longer distances than single-mode cables.
	3. Multimode cables have a smaller core filament than single-mode cables.
	4. Multimode cables have a smaller bend radius than single-mode, making them easier to install.
	5. Multimode fiber-optic cables require a ground, whereas single-mode cables do not.

35. A user swipes a smartcard through the reader connected to a laptop and then types a password to log on to the system. Which of the following actions is the user performing?
	1.
